<h2>Synopsis</h2>

<p><a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Literate_programming">Literate programming</a>, an idea of <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Donald_knuth">D.E. Knuth</a>, proposes a new method of program design. Knuth's ideas can be applied in the context of modern-day <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix">UNIX</a> systems. The system you are interacting with now is one such application. UNIX systems are typically controlled by means of an interactive shell program, such as sh. System control is essentially the same as any other program, and so the concepts of literate computing can be applied to this domain.</p>

<p>If you're interested in the idea, <a href="http://offsite.andyic.org/LitComp.dmg"><strong>download</strong></a> the latest distribution now. There's no need to read any further, as the application is entirely self-documented.</p>

<h2>How It Works</h2>

<p>Knuth's <a href="http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.126.8364&rep=rep1&type=pdf"><em>Literate Computing</em></a> references two programs, tangle and weave, which generate a runnable program and typeset documentation respectively.</p>

<p>Today, dynamic programs are quite common, and static programs can even be generated on-the-fly. Because of this, there is no need to have the separate processes of tangling and weaving. Instead, programs are represented in the well-known paradigm of wiki websites. Program fragments are embedded among the wiki source code, and are referenced according to the nearest preceding header (H1-H6) element. Advantages of this method over Knuth's original tangle and weave programs are numerous:</p>

<ul>
  <li>Applications may be edited in the familiar context of a web browser.</li>
  <li>Live hyperlinks to content across the web may be included.</li>
  <li>HTML5 microdata may be used in order to define a structured meaning of content.</li>
  <li>Program fragments of any language may be embedded.</li>
</ul>

<h2>Example Applications</h2>

<ul>
  <li><a href="Web_Based_Music_System">Web Based Music System</a></li>
  <li><a href="Two-Dimensional_Artwork">Two-Dimensional Artwork</a></li>
  <li><a href="Music_Production">Music Production</a></li>
  <li><a href="Statistical_Analysis_of_Web_Data">Statistical Analysis of Web Data</a></li>
</ul>

<h2>Contributing</h2>

<p>LitComp is community-driven free software. As such, contributions from users around the world are vital to the success of the project. If you're interested in contributing to the project, a great place to start is the <a href="Collaboration">Collaboration</a> page.</p>

